 THE VERDICT

                                  by David Mamet

          INT.  FIRST FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY

          A working-class funeral in progress. THIRTY PEOPLE and an 
          inexpensive bier SEEN from the back of the hall.

          ANGLE

          A MAN's back FILLS the SCREEN.  He is dressed in a black suit; 
          his hands are clasped behind him.  ANOTHER MAN stands next to 
          him.  The Second Man reaches behind the First Man's back and 
          puts a discreetly folded ten-dollar bill into his hands.

          ANGLE

          These Two Men from the front.  Both somber, in their early 
          fifties.  They begin to walk down the aisle of the funeral 
          parlor.

          ANGLE

          The WIDOW.  A woman in her late fifties sitting by the bier 
          receiving condolences.  The Two Men approach her.  The First 
          Man (the recipient of the money) speaks:

                                    FUNERAL DIRECTOR
                        Mrs. Dee, this is Frank Galvin --a 
                        very good friend of ours, and a 
                        very fine attorney.

                                    GALVIN
                        It's a shame about your husband, 
                        Mrs. Dee.

          The Widow nods.

                                    GALVIN
                        I knew him vaguely through the 
                        Lodge.  He was a wonderful man.     
                        (shakes head in sympathy)  It was 
                        a crime what happened to him.  A 
                        crime.  If there's anything that I 
                        could do to help ...

          GALVIN removes a business card from his jacket pocket and hands 
          it to her as if he were giving her money.  (i.e., "Take it.  
          Really.  I want you to have it ..."  She takes the card.  Beat.

                                    GALVIN
                               (thoughtfully 
                               realizes he is 
                               usurping her time)
                        Well ...

          He shakes her hand and moves on.

          INT.  COFFEE SHOP - DAY

          Galvin sitting in the deserted coffee shop in his raincoat.  
          Reading a section of the paper.  He picks up his teacup, drinks.  
          Lowers it to the table.

          ANGLE - INSERT

          Galvin twists tea bag around a spoon to extract last drops of 
          tea.  His hand moves to his felt pen lying on the table.  He 
          moves his hand to the paper, open at the obituary section.  We 
          SEE several names crossed out.  He circles one funeral listing.

          ANGLE

          Galvin sitting, raises cup of tea to his lips.  Looks around 
          deserted coffee shop.  Sighs.

          INT.  SECOND FUNERAL HOME AND STREET - AFTERNOON

          Galvin outside a second funeral home.  WORKING-CLASS PEOPLE 
          entering, Galvin enters the home.

          ANGLE

          Galvin, coming down the aisle toward the front, shrugging 
          himself out of his overcoat, he approaches the BEREAVED WIDOW 
          sitting by the front of the home, he extracts his card from 
          his pocket, starts to speak.  He is stopped by the WIDOW'S 
          SON, a hefty man in his mid-forties, who interjects himself 
          between Galvin and the widow.

                                    SON
                               (of the card)
                        What is that ...?

                                    GALVIN
                        I ...

                                    SON
                        What the hell is that ...

                                    GALVIN
                        ... I was a friend of your fa...

                                    SON
                        You never knew my father.
                               (hits card out of 
                               Galvin's hand)
                        You get out of here, who the hell 
                        do you think you are ...

          The FUNERAL MANAGER hurries down the aisle, and starts 
          extricating Galvin from the commotion.

                                    GALVIN
                               (to Funeral Manager)
                        I'm talking to this man ...

                                    FUNERAL MANAGER
                        Excuse me, Mrs. Cleary...

          He is manhandling Galvin toward the back of the funeral parlor.  
          The Son calls after him:

                                    SON
                        Who the hell do you think you are?

          EXT.  SECOND FUNERAL PARLOR - AFTERNOON

          The Funeral Manager and Galvin standing in the cold.

                                    FUNERAL MANAGER
                        I don't want you coming back here.  
                        Ever.  Do you understand?

                                    GALVIN
                        I was just talking to...

                                    FUNERAL MANAGER
                        Those are bereaved people in there.

          The Funeral Manager gives Galvin a small shove, and goes back 
          to his post at the door, greeting the entering mourners.  "Good 
          evening..."

          ANGLE

          Galvin, the ground cut out from under him.  Standing watching 
          the mourners enter.

          EXT.  SECOND FUNERAL STREET - DUSK

          Galvin walking down a residential street.  He has been walking 
          a while in the cold, snowy night.  He stops for a stoplight at 
          a corner, waits for the light although there is no traffic.  
          Lights a cigarette.  The light changes.  He looks both ways 
          and irresolutely starts across the street.  He stops.  He checks 
          his watch.  He sighs, and starts back in the opposite direction.

          INT.  O'ROURKE'S BAR - NIGHT

          Galvin holding forth at the bar of a seedy drinking-man's 
          establishment, THREE DRINKERS, acquaintances, standing around 
          him, appreciative.

                                    GALVIN
                        Pat says, 'Mike ... there's a new 
                        bar, you go in, for a half a buck 
                        you get a beer, a free lunch, and 
                        then take you in the back room and 
                        they get you laid.'

          The bartender, JIMMY, comes up to Galvin.

                                    JIMMY
                        Another, Frank . . . ?

                                    GALVIN
                               (gestures to include 
                               group)
                        ...everybody.  Mike says, `Pat, 
                        you mean to tell me for a buck you 
                        get a free lunch and a beer, and 
                        then you go in the back and get 
                        laid?'  `That's correct.'  Mike 
                        says, `Pat.  Have you been in this 
                        bar ?'  Pat says, `No, but my sister 
                        has ...'  (gestures to Jimmy)  
                        Everyone.  Buy yourself one too.

          INT.  GALVIN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

          The seedy, disorganized small office, Galvin in shirt-sleeves 
          opening a file cabinet.  He takes out an armload of files, 
          carries them to a wastebasket and throws them in.  He sits on 
          his desk, as if exhausted by his effort, pours from a whiskey 
          bottle into a large water glass, downs the glass.  He has been 
          drinking for some time.  He starts -- stumbling back to the 
          file cabinet.  On the way his eye is caught by his degrees 
          hanging on the wall.  He stumbles to them, picks them up and 
          walks over to the wastebasket and throws them in.  He goes 
          back to the file cabinet, the phone starts ringing.  Galvin 
          lets it ring, continues emptying the files into the wastebasket, 
          tearing some of them up as he does so.  He repeats softly to 
          himself, as a litany, "It doesn't make a bit of difference, it 
          doesn't make a bit of difference ..."  He starts back to the 
          desk for the bottle, knocks the still-ringing phone off the 
          desk.  He pours himself a drink.  As he downs it we hear -- 
          softly -- from the phone on the floor:  a MAN'S VOICE.  "Frank.  
          Frank.  Frank.  Goddamnit.  Are you there ...?  Frank ..."  
          Galvin pays no attention.  Drinks his drink and gazes at the 
          wall -- now empty of degrees.

          ANGLE - P.O.V.

          The empty wall.  Galvin's P.O.V.  The telephone heard Voice 
          Over insisting, "Frank ..."

          INT.  GALVIN'S OFFICE ANTEROOM - NIGHT

          MICKEY MORRISSEY, a man in his late sixties, dressed in suit 
          and overcoat, looking worried, unlocks the door to the dark 
          anteroom.  Looks around.  Sees something in the next room.

          ANGLE - P.O.V.

          Galvin asleep on his couch, clothed as before.  Covered in his 
          overcoat, the bottle and glass next to the couch on the floor, 
          the sound of the phone off the hook.

          ANGLE

          Mickey walks into the office.  Stands looking at Galvin.

                                    MICKEY
                               (harshly)
                        Get up.
                               (beat, more harshly)
                        Get up.

          Galvin wakes up.  Looks around.  Swings his legs over the couch.  
          Drinks from the glass.  Vacantly:

                                    GALVIN
                        Hi, Mickey ...

                                    MICKEY
                        What the hell do you think you're 
                        doing ...? (surveys the wrecked 
                        office) What's going on here ...?

                                    GALVIN
                        Uh ...

                                    MICKEY
                        Fuck you.  I got a call today from 
                        Sally Doneghy ...

                                    GALVIN
                        ... now who is that ...?

                                    MICKEY
                        ... You're 'sposed to be in court 
                        in ten days and she's telling me 
                        you haven't even met with them ...

                                    GALVIN
                        Sally Doneghy, now who is that?

                                    MICKEY
                        One lousy letter eighteen months 
                        ago. . . .I try to throw a fuckin' 
                        case your way ...

                                    GALVIN
                        ... hey, I don't need your charity 
                        ...

                                    MICKEY
                        ... I get these people to trust 
                        you --they're coming here tomorrow 
                        by the way --I get this expert 
                        doctor to talk to you.  I'm doing 
                        all your fuckin' legwork -- and 
                        it's eighteen months.  You're 
                        'sposed to be in court.  I bet you 
                        haven't even seen the file.

          Galvin pours himself a drink.

                                    GALVIN
                        Hey, what are you, my nanny?

          Mickey walks to him, knocks the drink out of his hand and slaps 
          him several times in the face.

                                    MICKEY
                        Listen to me.  Listen to me 
                        ...listen to me, Frank, 'cause I'm 
                        done fuckin' with you.  I can't do 
                        it any more.  Look around you:  
                        You think that you're going to 
                        change?  What's going to change 
                        it?  You think it's going to be 
                        different next month?  It's going 
                        to be the same.  And I have to 
                        stop.  This is it.  I got you a 
                        good case, it's a moneymaker.  You 
                        do it right and it will take care 
                        of you.  But I'm through.  I'm 
                        sorry, Frank, this is the end.  
                        (beat) Life is too short, and I'm 
                        too old. (Beat)

          Mickey walks out of the office.  Slams the door.  Beat.  Galvin 
          looks around the office.  Goes to his sofa.  Sits, reaches to 
          side table.

          ANGLE - INSERT

          The side table, a pack of Luckies.  Galvin taking one, his 
          hand shaking a little.  Also on side table a pile of change 
          containing a small rosary and a wedding ring.

          INT.  GALVIN'S OFFICE ANTEROOM - INSERT - DAY

          The carriage of a typewriter.  A sheet of paper.  Its letterhead 
          reads "Frank P. Galvin.  Attorney at Law, 124 State Street, 
          Boston, Mass.  02981.  Cable FRAGAL."  Someone is typing, "Sorry 
          I had to go out.  Back at 10.  Judge Geary called.  Are you 
          available for lunch Wednesday University Club?"  A hand takes 
          a paper from carriage and puts it on desk.  Takes a pen and 
          signs, "Claire."

          ANGLE

          Galvin in the anteroom, dressed in his suit, unshaved, having 
          just signed the paper.  He takes a piece of Scotch tape from 
          the dispenser on the desk, picks up a file folder from the 
          coffee table.  It is torn in several places and rudely Scotch-
          taped.

          ANGLE - P.O.V. - INSERT

          The file headed Deborah Ann Kaye v. St. Catherine Laboure 
          Hospital et. al.

          ANGLE

          Galvin surveys the anteroom, opens door to corridor, Scotch 
          tapes the note he has just typewritten to the outside of the 
          door.

          INT.  O'ROURKE'S BAR - DAY

          Dark paneling, clean, simple.  A drinkers' bar.  OLD BARTENDER 
          and THREE CUSTOMERS spaced widely, Galvin in his overcoat 
          downing a shot, the file open before him.  He is reading.  He 
          checks his watch, scoops the file together under his arm, throws 
          a dollar on the bar, and heads for the door.
